Prime Minister David Cameron said the Conservatives were delivering for Wales as he joined the party's campaign ahead of the assembly election on 5 May.

On a visit to Swansea, he said public spending cuts were lower in Wales than England.

He hailed the decision to electrify the main railway line between London and Cardiff, and said ministers were looking at extending it to Swansea.

He told party members Tories had a "great manifesto" for the election.

He said the UK government's plan for the economy "is right and we are sticking to it".

The government was cutting corporation tax, had taken 1p off fuel duty and had scrapped the fuel duty escalator, he said.

Speaking at Swansea's Guildhall, Mr Cameron said: "This is what Conservatives do in government.

"We listen to what people want, we roll up our sleeves and we get on with the job. That's exactly what we have got to tell the Welsh people every day until those elections in May."

He added: "Look at what the Conservatives in Westminster have delivered for Wales in these last 11 months and then tell people what we can deliver if in power in Cardiff over the next four years."

A Tory pledge to increase the health budget in line with inflation was a "guarantee to protect NHS spending in Wales", Mr Cameron said.

The pledge is likely to be a key battleground at the election, with opponents saying it would force bigger cuts in other Welsh Assembly Government departments.

But the Conservative leader said: "Make sure people know that Labour want to cut ?1bn off the NHS in Wales."

A new funding system for schools would take money out of bureaucracy and get more to the classroom, he said.

Welsh people should be told "they don't have to put up with a Labour Party that treats Wales like its own personal fiefdom and takes the Welsh people for granted".

"There is an alternative. It's governing well in Westminster. It would govern well in Cardiff," he said.

In a speech lasting a little over 11 minutes, Mr Cameron also urged the party to campaign against the alternative voting (AV) system for electing MPs.

A referendum on adopting AV for Westminster general elections will be held on the same day as the assembly election.

The Conservatives agreed to the referendum in their coalition deal with the Liberal Democrats at Westminster, but Mr Cameron said AV was "obscure, and only used by three countries".

It was "so unfair that candidates who come second or third can end up winning", he said.

Under AV, voters rank candidates in order of preference. 

Its supporters - who include Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg and Labour leader Ed Miliband - say that under AV politicians would have to reach out further and secure majority support.

Labour attacked the UK government's case for not electrifying the Great Western rail line through to Swansea.

Shadow Wales Office minister Owen Smith said: "We can now see that the government clearly made the decision not to extend electrification of the railway to Swansea and then cobbled together a business case to support their decision."

Plaid Cymru candidate for south Wales west Dai Lloyd said: "Today's visit offered no new developments so you have to ask what was the point coming.

"The need for electrification of the railway to Swansea is beyond debate."

Responding to the Tories' pledge on health spending, Peter Black, lead Lib Dem candidate in the south west, said: "The Tories want to protect bloated bureaucracy and managers in the NHS.

"They just don't realise that this will put Wales further behind where Labour and Plaid Cymru have left it."

