    	
    		  
    25 March 2011
Last updated at 04:29 GMT  


	
  Share this page
    	
    
      Delicious
    
    
      Digg
    
    
      Facebook
    
    
      reddit
    
    
      StumbleUpon
    
    
      Twitter
    
    
      Email
    
    
      Print
    
  


 
<!--
$render("page-bookmark-links","page-bookmark-links-head",{
	useForgeShareTools:"false",
    position:"top",
    site:'News', 
    headline:'BBC News - Clashes break out at Jordan anti-government protest', 
    storyId:'12857360', 
    sectionId:'99125', 
    url:'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-12857360', 
    edition:'International'
}); 
-->



Clashes break out at Jordan anti-government protest
    
     
         
 
        		
		        
        
  

    Students were joined by leftists and Islamists to demand political reforms
  
	
		Continue reading the main story		Related Stories
		
						New Jordan PM unlikely to appease protesters
											Country profile: Jordan
								
	
                      Supporters of Jordan&#039;s government have clashed with protesters demanding political reforms in the capital Amman.
        Reports say supporters of the king threw stones at the hundreds of protesters camped in Gamal Abdel Nasser Square, injuring a number of them.
        The protesters were demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Marouf al-Bakhit, reforms to parliament and for corrupt officials to stand trial.
        King Abdullah appointed Mr Bakhit last month after large street protests.
        Thursday&#039;s demonstration - which was organised through the social networking website Facebook by a group calling itself Youth of March 24 - saw student protesters joined by leftists and members of the Islamist opposition.
        Some witnesses said the police stood by as a group of government supporters moved in to the square and began throwing stones. As many as 35 people were reported injured, most with head wounds.
        Jordan&#039;s opposition has demanded electoral reforms that would see the prime minister directly elected and more powers granted to the parliament.
        In a letter published in Jordanian newspapers on Wednesday, King Abdullah urged Prime Minister Bakhit to push through parliament reforms the monarch proposed in February, after the last prime minister was sacked.
        At that time, Jordanians had taken to the streets in largely peaceful protests to demand on political reforms, high unemployment and rising prices.
        Mr Bakhit is a retired army major-general who served as Jordan&#039;s prime minister from 2005 until his resignation in 2007.
        Jordan is just one of the countries in the region where protests have been held to demand political changes after the presidents of Tunisia and Egypt were toppled in January and February.
             
	
	