    	
    		  
    25 March 2011
Last updated at 11:05 GMT  


	
  Share this page
    	
    
      Delicious
    
    
      Digg
    
    
      Facebook
    
    
      reddit
    
    
      StumbleUpon
    
    
      Twitter
    
    
      Email
    
    
      Print
    
  


 
<!--
$render("page-bookmark-links","page-bookmark-links-head",{
	useForgeShareTools:"false",
    position:"top",
    site:'News', 
    headline:'BBC News - Convoy in Pakistan Kurram agency ambushed by gunmen', 
    storyId:'12664454', 
    sectionId:'99126', 
    url:'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-south-asia-12664454', 
    edition:'International'
}); 
-->



Convoy in Pakistan Kurram agency ambushed by gunmen
    
     
         
 
        		
		        
        
  

  

	Continue reading the main story	




		     
	       	          

		
		
						
		
		
	
						Taliban Conflict
		
		

		  	  
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Facing the Taliban
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Can Afghan forces step up?
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Make-or-break year ahead
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Who are the Taliban?
	
		
	  	  
  


		
	

	       	     
	
                      At least eight people have been killed and 15 kidnapped as gunmen attacked two vehicles travelling through a volatile district of north-west Pakistan, officials say.
        The ambush occurred in the Bagan area of the Kurram tribal agency. About five others were injured. 
        Those targeted were Shia Muslims who recently struck a peace deal with Taliban militants in the area.
        The region also has a history of sectarian violence.
        The gunmen fired on one vehicle, killing some passengers inside and then set fire to it, local officials told the BBC. They then hijacked a second vehicle carrying a number of passengers.
        &quot;The attackers came in two vehicles. They opened fire and fled, leaving eight people dead, including a woman and a child,&quot; local administration official Fazal Hussain told the AFP news agency.
  Shia-Taliban deal
	      The BBC&#039;s M Ilyas Khan in Islamabad says it is very likely the attack happened as a result of the recent peace deal between Shia tribes in the area and the Taliban.
        Our correspondent says that the peace deal was brokered in February by Pakistani security forces and guaranteed by members of the Haqqani network - a branch of the Afghan Taliban based in Pakistan.
        Shia Muslim tribes had been waging a three-year war to keep the Taliban out of the area.
        However, militant groups operating in other tribal regions have launched a number of attacks in an effort to undermine the deal, our correspondent says.
        In mid-March gunmen attacked a passenger coach travelling along the same road but in the neighbouring Hangu district, killing 11 people.  
        Just weeks earlier gunmen from the North Waziristan tribal region kidnapped 20 Shia residents of Kurram. There has been no word of their release.
        The latest attack occurred on the main road that runs through the Kurram tribal agency connecting the regional capital with the city of Peshawar. 
        Until the peace deal the road had been blocked by the Taliban since November 2007.
             
	
	