    	
    		  
    25 March 2011
Last updated at 00:30 GMT  


	
  Share this page
    	
    
      Delicious
    
    
      Digg
    
    
      Facebook
    
    
      reddit
    
    
      StumbleUpon
    
    
      Twitter
    
    
      Email
    
    
      Print
    
  


 
<!--
$render("page-bookmark-links","page-bookmark-links-head",{
	useForgeShareTools:"false",
    position:"top",
    site:'News', 
    headline:'BBC News - Mexico media agree drug war reporting guidelines ', 
    storyId:'12855300', 
    sectionId:'99124', 
    url:'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-12855300', 
    edition:'International'
}); 
-->



Mexico media agree drug war reporting guidelines 
    
     
         
 
        		
		        
        
  

    The initiative is the first of its kind in Mexico
  

	Continue reading the main story			     
	       	          

		
		
						
		
		
	
						MEXICO&#039;S DRUGS WAR
		
		

		  	  
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Agent&#039;s murder: Impact on US-Mexico ties
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Analysing the murder figures
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Q&amp;A: Drug violence
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Battling the cartels
	
		
	  	  
  


		
	

	       	     
	
                      Many of Mexico&#039;s leading news organisations have agreed common guidelines on how to cover drug-related violence. 
        Newspapers and broadcasters agreed not to glorify drug traffickers or publish cartel propaganda. 
        They also promised joint action to protect journalists, at least 20 of whom have been killed since 2006. 
        The accord defends the media&#039;s right to criticise Mexican government policy and actions in the drugs conflict. 
        More than 40 media groups, which between them own over 700 television networks, radio stations and newspapers, signed the agreement at a ceremony in Mexico City. 
        Among them were the top broadcasters, Televisa and TV Azteca. 
        But some leading newspapers - including Reforma, La Jornada and Proceso - did not sign up. 
  Intimidation
	      The agreement was signed by media executives and journalists at a ceremony in Mexico City. 
        &quot;The power of organised crime to corrupt and intimidate has become a threat to the institutions and practices that sustain our democracy,&quot; a joint statement said. &quot;Today, freedom of expression is at risk&quot;. 
        The 10-point voluntary agreement says the media should &quot;condemn and reject&quot; organised criminal violence, and cover it in a measured way, putting it in the context of violence elsewhere. 
        It says the media must not allow itself be used to transmit propaganda for the drug cartels, or make their leaders look like &quot;victims or heroes&quot;.
        The accord also notes that Mexico is one of the most dangerous countries in the world for journalists, with more than 20 murdered since 2006. 
  
	Continue reading the main story	&ldquo;Start Quote
Media participation is crucial in building state security policy&rdquo;
End Quote
	President Felipe Calderon
	

		      It says media organisations should do more to protect their staff from violence, and respond in a coordinated way when any individual journalist or media outlet is threatened, intimidated or attacked. 
        In other points, it says news organisations should:
  
     protect the rights of victims and children involved in the violence and never release information that puts them at risk.
     treat people arrested as suspects rather than presume they are guilty. 
     not publish or broadcast information that endangers police and military operations.
     report any violations of human rights by government security forces.  
     encourage Mexican citizens to report crime and help reduce violence without putting themselves at risk.
  
  

    Mexican journalists are frequently attacked
  
      President Felipe Calderon has welcomed the agreement. 
        &quot;Media participation is crucial in building state security policy,&quot; his office said in a statement. 
        &quot;We encourage other sectors of society to promote initiatives like this one to confront those who want to destroy the peace and security of all Mexicans,&quot; it added. 
        President Calderon has in the past accused the media of exaggerating the scale of drug-related violence in Mexico, and criticised them for publishing statements and threats from the cartels
        The international Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) said the agreement was &quot;a national breakthrough that could set professional standards well into the future&quot;.
        But critics say it could lead to restrictions on the media. 
        Journalist Genaro Villamil of the magazine Proceso - which did not sign the accord - said it &quot;opened the door to a form of prior censorship,&quot; the AFP news agency reported. 
             
	
	