    	
    		  
    25 March 2011
Last updated at 13:33 GMT  


	
  Share this page
    	
    
      Delicious
    
    
      Digg
    
    
      Facebook
    
    
      reddit
    
    
      StumbleUpon
    
    
      Twitter
    
    
      Email
    
    
      Print
    
  


 
<!--
$render("page-bookmark-links","page-bookmark-links-head",{
	useForgeShareTools:"false",
    position:"top",
    site:'News', 
    headline:'BBC News - Neil Murray husband of Cornwall MP dies while fishing', 
    storyId:'12860979', 
    sectionId:'99218', 
    url:'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-devon-12860979', 
    edition:'International'
}); 
-->



Neil Murray husband of Cornwall MP dies while fishing
    
     
         
 
        		
		        
        
  

    Emergency services were alerted after Neil Murray failed to return on time 
  
                      The husband of South East Cornwall MP Sheryll Murray has died in a suspected fishing accident.
        Trawlerman Neil Murray, 57, did not return from a solo fishing expedition from Looe on Thursday night.
        His boat, Our Boy Andrew, was found with his body on board after a search following a suspected fishing accident, Mrs Murray&#039;s agent said.
        Conservative MP Mrs Murray, elected in South East Cornwall in 2010, said her husband died &quot;doing what he loved&quot;. 
  'Greatly missed'
	      The couple have two children, Andrew, a marine electronics engineer and Sally, an officer in the Royal Navy.
        The fishing vessel was due to return to Looe harbour at 1900 GMT on Thursday after a day out at sea.
        Emergency services were alerted and the Fowey RNLI crew located the vessel 25 miles south of Fowey.
        They took it in tow, returning to the port at 0400 GMT.
        Mrs Murray said in a statement: &quot;Neil was dearly loved by his many family and friends and will be greatly missed.
        &quot;He has died doing what he loved. I would like to thank in particular the emergency services and all the local fishermen who took part in the search.&quot;
        The Marine Accident Investigation Branch is investigating.
             
	
	