    	
    		  
    25 March 2011
Last updated at 11:44 GMT  


	
  Share this page
    	
    
      Delicious
    
    
      Digg
    
    
      Facebook
    
    
      reddit
    
    
      StumbleUpon
    
    
      Twitter
    
    
      Email
    
    
      Print
    
  


 
<!--
$render("page-bookmark-links","page-bookmark-links-head",{
	useForgeShareTools:"false",
    position:"top",
    site:'News', 
    headline:'BBC News - \'Free school\' application rules ', 
    storyId:'12860477', 
    sectionId:'99105', 
    url:'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/education-12860477', 
    edition:'International'
}); 
-->



&#039;Free school&#039; application rules 
    
     
         
 
        		
		        
        
  

    Groups would have to demonstrate parental demand for a free school
  
	
		Continue reading the main story		Related Stories
		
						First green light for free school
											First 16 &#039;free schools&#039; revealed
											First free school gets go-ahead
								
	
                      The process by which parents and other groups apply to set up so-called free schools is being tightened up.
        Instead of submitting a broad-brush plan, groups would have to present more of an outline business case before they are eligible for grants of up to £200,000 to help with planning.
        These plans will then be judged against other free school proposals and scored for strengths and weaknesses.
        The government said the change was because of higher-than-expected demand.
        So far, the Department for Education has received 323 proposals from groups to become free schools. 
        Of these, 41 have been approved to move to business case and plan stage or beyond. A number of these are due to open in September 2011.
  'Virtually impossible'
	      The changes to the process have been criticised by free-school evangelist Toby Young who is setting up the West London Free School in Hammersmith.
        He told the Times Educational Supplement that he doubted the proposals for his school would have made through the new process.
        He said it would be &quot;virtually impossible&quot; for groups of parents to start their own schools
        He added: &quot;It looks as though it will now be less about encouraging groups of parents to set up schools, and much more about encouraging multi-academy sponsors setting up schools.&quot;
        A Department for Education spokeswoman said the changes were because of higher than expected demand for the new schools set up by community groups but funded by the state.
        She said: &quot;We want to create a diversity of free schools set up by a range of different groups - not just schools led by established Academy sponsors.  
        &quot;But it&#039;s absolutely right that all groups are able to demonstrate that they have the capacity and capability to run a school by submitting a full application themselves. 
        &quot;This doesn&#039;t mean that inexperienced but passionate groups of parents that want to set up schools will be left alone to struggle, as the New Schools Network is on hand to provide support throughout a group&#039;s application.&quot;
  New deadline
	      Under the new rules, groups would have to submit their proposals by a set deadline.
        The proposals will &quot;require detailed and robust responses&quot; to questions about things like parental demand, the type of education the school will provide, its ethos and the capacity and capability of the groups themselves.
        Groups that meet minimum requirements will then be judged against each other and scored on the strength of their proposals.
        Then shortlisted applicants will be called for an interview to discuss aspects of their proposal. 
        Interview panels will be made up of Department for Education officials, financial experts, education advisers, headteachers and organisations with a track record of setting up and running schools. 
             
	
	