    	
    		  
    24 March 2011
Last updated at 23:42 GMT  


	
  Share this page
    	
    
      Delicious
    
    
      Digg
    
    
      Facebook
    
    
      reddit
    
    
      StumbleUpon
    
    
      Twitter
    
    
      Email
    
    
      Print
    
  


 
<!--
$render("page-bookmark-links","page-bookmark-links-head",{
	useForgeShareTools:"true",
    position:"top",
    site:'News', 
    headline:'BBC News - Blackberry firm Research in Motion hurt by tablet cost', 
    storyId:'12856657', 
    sectionId:'99104', 
    url:'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-12856657', 
    edition:'International'
}); 
-->



Blackberry firm Research in Motion hurt by tablet cost
    
     
         
 
        		
		        
        
  

    The company&#039;s co-chief executive claimed clients had interest for tens of thousands of new Playbooks
  
	
		Continue reading the main story		Related Stories
		
						Staff push tablet computers at work
											What is Blackberry doing next?
								
	
                      Shares in Research in Motion (RIM) fell 12% in after-hours trading after the firm said profits this quarter will be much weaker than expected.
        It blamed the cost of developing its new tablet-format Blackberry, as well as a migration of consumers towards cheaper handsets in its product range.
        The share price fall came despite the Canadian firm reporting $934m (£579m) net profits for the last quarter, in line with expectations.
        Profits were up 31% on a year earlier.
  'Investments in the future'
	      Revenues of $5.6bn - up 36% - were slightly short of expectations, according to the results released after the close of trading on the Nasdaq exchange.
        The company has seen its share of its core US market steadily eroded by smartphone rivals.
        Some 48% of its business now comes from outside the key markets of the US, Canada and the UK.
        But growth in these new markets has gone hand-in-hand with a shift towards lower-margin entry-point products, the firm conceded.
        RIM is banking on its new tablet computer - the Playbook - to regain the initiative.
        It will be half the size of Apple&#039;s iPad and will be compatible with Google&#039;s Android operating system.
        &quot;These are investments in the future,&quot; said co-chief executive Jim Balsillie, explaining the unexpected increase in money spent on research, development, sales and market.
        &quot;I have many corporate clients that have approached us about, you know, each wanting tens of thousands, several tens of thousands of Playbooks.&quot;
        As well as the new product launch, the company is also revamping its operating system.
        The firm lowered its profit guidance for the current quarter, and also broadened its range due to uncertainty over the possible impact of Japanese supply chain problems.
             
	
	