Police made 10 arrests, mostly for ticket touting offences, at the Euro 2012 qualifier between Wales and England in Cardiff.

The arrests included two for public order offences and one for assault.

Meanwhile, 150 fans were held near the city's bus station until an hour after kick off because police feared an incident of "disorder".

Chief Sup Alun Thomas said the "overwhelming" majority of supporters behaved responsibly.

He said that around 1430 GMT, around 150 fans were contained as a result of disorderly behaviour between pubs and and the stadium.

"This containment was necessary to prevent further disorder and maximise public safety. The group then left the city at our request," he said.

"Seventy thousand well-behaved football supporters did not deserve to have their day ruined, or their personal safety compromised, by this small minority and the containment ensured this did not happen.

"This incident should not distract from what was a hugely successful day for Cardiff with the overwhelming majority of people enjoying themselves and behaving responsibly."

Police arrested seven men on suspicion of ticket touting ahead of England's football match against Wales today.

The suspects were arrested outside the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff.

Most of those arrested were part of a pre-planned anti-ticket tout operation as part of the Metropolitan Police's Operation Podium.

It aims to tackle touting ahead of the London Olympics next year.

Det Chief Insp Nick Downing said: "Our experience shows those who are involved in illegal ticket touting now are highly likely to be the same people who want to target the Games in 2012."

"That's why we're working now to disrupt these criminals and organised networks, who are only interested in making money off the back of genuine fans."

Two men, aged 49 and 46, were charged with illegal touting, three men, aged 37, 40 and 48, remain in police custody, and two others, aged 34 and 51, were bailed until next month pending further inquiries.

Meanwhile, England manager Fabio Capello has called on football's authorities to track down fans who are shining lasers in the eyes of players.

Capello noticed it as he was replacing Scott Parker with Phil Jagielka just before the end of England's 2-0 win and he feels something has to be done.

Another incident involved midfielder Jack Wilshere.

"It is not good. You need to find these people who are coming to the game with a laser. It is not sporting," said Capello.

The FAW said it was in dialogue with the FA. 

Both the Millennium Stadium and FA have confirmed that no official complaint has been made.

Ahead of Saturday afternoon's game, British Transport Police had warned against bad behaviour from fans travelling to the game, saying they would "not tolerate intimidating or anti-social behaviour from those intent on spoiling the day for others."

An alcohol ban was force on trains bringing fans to the city, including all services from London Paddington, Bristol Temple Meads, Swansea and Carmarthen, and all Valley Lines services.

A large number of roads were closed in the city centre but taxi drivers called off a planned strike.

