    	
    		  
    25 March 2011
Last updated at 15:37 GMT  


	
  Share this page
    	
    
      Delicious
    
    
      Digg
    
    
      Facebook
    
    
      reddit
    
    
      StumbleUpon
    
    
      Twitter
    
    
      Email
    
    
      Print
    
  


 
<!--
$render("page-bookmark-links","page-bookmark-links-head",{
	useForgeShareTools:"false",
    position:"top",
    site:'News', 
    headline:'BBC News - Libya: Uganda freezes Libyan assets under UN sanctions', 
    storyId:'12860837', 
    sectionId:'99121', 
    url:'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-12860837', 
    edition:'International'
}); 
-->



Libya: Uganda freezes Libyan assets under UN sanctions
    
     
         
 
        		
		        
        
  

    Uganda&#039;s Yoweri Museveni (l) has called for an end to air strikes against Col Muammar Gaddafi (r)
  

	Continue reading the main story	




		     
	       	          

		
		
						
		
		
	
						Libya Crisis
		
		

		  	  
	  	  	
	   




		


	





	Libya and Mid-East crisis Live
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Nato control on Libya &#039;days away&#039;
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Turkey&#039;s difficulties
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Sarkozy seizes moment
	
		
	  	  
  


		
	

	       	     
	
                      Uganda will freeze Libyan assets worth $375m (£230m), mainly in the telecommunications, hotel, banking and oil sectors, the government says.   
        The BBC East Africa correspondent says this is not aimed at putting pressure on Col Muammar Gaddafi but rather to comply with UN sanctions.
        Uganda&#039;s President Yoweri Museveni has previously called for an end to the Western air strikes.
        Oil-rich Libya has used money to buy influence across Africa.
        South Africa has already announced a freeze of Libyan assets, although its president has also condemned the military action.
  Rebel no-show
	      The BBC&#039;s Will Ross says the isolated Libyan leader will still be hoping for diplomatic support within Africa.
        The African Union is trying to organise peace talks between allies of Col Gaddafi and the rebels in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa.
        Co Gaddafi has sent several representatives to the meeting but so far none of the rebels have turned up, our correspondent says.
        There is a degree of reluctance in much of Africa to take action against the Libyan leader, he says.
        Col Gaddafi has used money to gain favour and the Libyan government has invested heavily in at least 25 African nations, so the conflict threatens to have a significant economic impact across the continent, he says.       
        To avert fears of job losses in Uganda, International Co-operation Minister Henry Okello Oryem said that, despite the freezing of assets, the Libyan-linked businesses would still be able to function.  
        But he said the money would be channelled into a special account until sanctions were lifted.    
  
                        Are you in Libya? Do you welcome Nato&#039;s involvement? Should more Arab nations take an active part in the military operation?  Send us your experiences and comments using the form below.
  

	
		
  
    
    
    
    
      
        (Required)  Name
        
        
      
      
        (Required)  Your E-mail address
        
        
      
      
        (Required)  Town &amp; Country
        
        
      
      
        (Required)  Your telephone number
        
        
      
    
    
      
        (Required)  Comments
        
        
      
    
    
      In most cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location unless you state otherwise. But your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws.
      Terms and conditions
      Send
      Clear
    
  
           
	
	