More than a billion people are thought to be watching the World Cup cricket semi-final between India and Pakistan in the Indian city of Mohali.

Both countries are reported to have ground to a halt to watch the match, which is being attended by their respective prime ministers.

This is the first time the two sides have played on each other's soil since the 2008 Mumbai (Bombay) attacks.

The nuclear-armed neighbours' ties hit a low after the attacks.

They were blamed on Pakistan-based militants. 

The match in the northern Indian city is expected to be watched on television by more than a billion people.

Pakistani Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani was invited by his Indian counterpart, Manmohan Singh, in what is being described as "cricket diplomacy".

Before the match the two leaders shook hands with both sets of players. After watching the game together, they are due to return to their respective capitals, Delhi and Islamabad, reports say.

It is not clear whether the two leaders will hold any talks during the game.

"I am going to watch the match. It is too early to expect anything else," Mr Gilani told reporters beforehand.

The meeting comes a day after India and Pakistan agreed to let their officials visit each others' countries to investigate the Mumbai attacks.

The breakthrough followed talks between the two sides in Delhi. The attacks killed at least 174 people, nine of whom were the gunmen. One attacker was caught alive and has been sentenced to death.

The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder in Mohali says that with only half of the stadium's 28,000 tickets open to the public, there were none to be had except on the black market. 

Tickets were apparently selling for up to 10 times their original value, our correspondent says. Other reports put the figure much higher.

Pakistan has declared a half-day holiday to allow fans to watch the match, while many offices in both countries said they would shut for the occasion. 

The BBC's Syed Shoaib Hasan in Karachi, Pakistan's largest city and home of cricket captain and key player Shahid Afridi, says that giant screens have been set up at various venues across the city. 

Before the match, fans hurriedly gathered at shops across the city to stock up on snacks. Everybody seems to be bedecked in green shirts and cloaks - the colour of the Pakistani flag. Cars were also draped with flags and posters of national team members, our correspondent reports. 

"This is a more important event than any other event in Pakistan this year," one fan, Karachi-based fund manager Omar Ehtisham Anwar, told Reuters news agency.

"There is no way I would miss even a second of this match - I will try to not even blink during the game."

In India, many will return home early as well. Giant television screens have been installed in markets and restaurants for people to watch the match.

"We do not have any animosity towards the Pakistan team," Indian cricket fan Ravi Ansal told the AFP news agency. 

"They are a fine team and if India go on to lose the semi-final, I will cheer for Pakistan in the final."

The match is being held amid tight security and authorities have imposed a ban on flights over the stadium.

Reports say more than 2,000 police and paramilitary forces have been deployed around the venue. 

"We are leaving nothing to chance. The security will be multi-layered," local police chief GPS Bhullar told reporters.

In February, the two countries agreed to resume peace talks "on all issues". Peace moves were put on hold after the 2008 attacks, although the sides have met a number of times in the past year.

Pakistan's foreign minister will visit India by July to review progress in the dialogue. 

Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk  or text them to 61124 (UK) or +44 7725 100 100 (International). If you have a large file you can upload here.

Read the terms and conditions

