    	
    		  
    24 March 2011
Last updated at 21:57 GMT  


	
  Share this page
    	
    
      Delicious
    
    
      Digg
    
    
      Facebook
    
    
      reddit
    
    
      StumbleUpon
    
    
      Twitter
    
    
      Email
    
    
      Print
    
  


 
<!--
$render("page-bookmark-links","page-bookmark-links-head",{
	useForgeShareTools:"true",
    position:"top",
    site:'News', 
    headline:'BBC News - Fed chairman Bernanke to give press conferences', 
    storyId:'12856513', 
    sectionId:'99104', 
    url:'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-12856513', 
    edition:'International'
}); 
-->



Fed chairman Bernanke to give press conferences
    
     
         
 
        		
		        
        
  

    Mr Bernanke has faced the press before, taking after-speech questions and giving lengthy interviews
  

	Continue reading the main story	




		     
	       	          

		
		
						
				
		
		
	
						US Economy
		
		

		  	  
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	US inflation rate picks up speed
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	US retail sales grew in February
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	US unemployment rate falls again
	
		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	Q&amp;A: The Fed&#039;s QE gambit
	
		
	  	  
  


		
						

	       	     
	
                      Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke is to give regular press conferences.
        He will take questions four times a year, to coincide with the Fed&#039;s quarterly economic forecasts, with the first due on 27 April.
        The 98-year-old US monetary authority has never opened up in this way before, and until 1994 did not even announce its interest rate decisions.
        It comes after the Fed was criticised for its secretiveness about actions taken during the 2008 financial crisis.
        Earlier this week the central bank lost a court case, forcing it to disclose the names of banks that received emergency loans during the financial meltdown.
  Video-conference
	      Mr Bernanke&#039;s decision brings him into line with other central bankers.
        The European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, gives a press conference after every committee meeting, while the Bank of England governor, Mervyn King, gives quarterly briefings to the press.
        The Fed chairman, whose words can move the markets, has a history of opening up the traditionally opaque institution.
        He has already given two in-depth television interviews, and has taken questions after speeches. He also arranged an unusual video-conference last autumn.
        &quot;The introduction of regular press briefings is intended to further enhance the clarity and timeliness of the Federal Reserve&#039;s monetary policy communications,&quot; it said in a statement on its website.
             
	
	