    	
    		  
    25 March 2011
Last updated at 17:26 GMT  


	
  Share this page
    	
    
      Delicious
    
    
      Digg
    
    
      Facebook
    
    
      reddit
    
    
      StumbleUpon
    
    
      Twitter
    
    
      Email
    
    
      Print
    
  


 
<!--
$render("page-bookmark-links","page-bookmark-links-head",{
	useForgeShareTools:"false",
    position:"top",
    site:'News', 
    headline:'BBC News - Cricket World Cup: India PM invites Pakistan leaders', 
    storyId:'12864679', 
    sectionId:'99126', 
    url:'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-south-asia-12864679', 
    edition:'International'
}); 
-->



Cricket World Cup: India PM invites Pakistan leaders
    
     
         
 
        		
		        
        
  

    On Thursday India defeated Australia to make its way into the semi-final
  
	
		Continue reading the main story		Related Stories
		
						Delhi resumes Pakistan sport ties
											South Asia foes row over cricket
											India-Pakistan duo woo Wimbledon
											
	
                      India&#039;s PM has invited Pakistan&#039;s leaders to join him in watching next week&#039;s cricket World Cup semi-final game between the South Asian rivals. 
        The hugely-anticipated match is due to be hosted in the northern Indian city of Mohali.
        Earlier, Pakistan&#039;s cricket team arrived for their first visit to India since the 2008 Mumbai (Bombay) attacks.
        Relations between the nuclear-armed rivals are still tense after Pakistan-based militants targeted the city.
        More than 170 people were killed in the attacks, which Pakistan admitted were partly planned on its soil. 
        The two sides have met a number of times over the past year and Pakistan&#039;s foreign minister was scheduled to visit India by July to discuss the resumption of peace talks.
        Formal invitations from Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will be delivered to the Pakistani High Commission for Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani, Indian media reports said.
  
	Continue reading the main story		Analysis
		
	
		Soutik Biswas
	BBC News, Delhi
	

	
	      Cricket diplomacy in the subcontinent is nothing new. 
        Pakistan&#039;s President General Zia was the first to use it when he made a sudden visit to India in the mid-1980s to watch an India-Pakistan game and ease tensions arising from a military exercise by India along the Pakistan border.  
        He also met Indian PM Rajiv Gandhi informally in an attempt to defuse the tension.
        But whether Mr Singh&#039;s diplomacy will lead to any significant thaw in relations or lead to a resumption of bilateral cricket ties is a moot question.
  
	
		
			Biswas on India: Epic encounter
		
	      A foreign office spokesman in the Pakistani city of Islamabad said no decision had been made on whether to accept the invitation, the Reuters news agency reported.
        Pakistan&#039;s cricket team slipped into India almost unnoticed, despite a frenetic build-up to the match that has already been billed as the ultimate show down, the BBC&#039;s Sanjoy Majumder in Delhi says. 
        Almost half of the team have never been to India.
        Heavy security is already in place for the match but this was stepped up after police said on Thursday they had arrested a man they believed was planning an attack during the World Cup.
        Across India and Pakistan there is a mad scramble for tickets for next week&#039;s face-off, our correspondent says.
        India has issued 5,000 visas to Pakistanis with confirmed tickets and the government is under pressure to ease restrictions and allow more people in from across the border. 
  
  

    Pakistan trounced the West Indies earlier this week to reach the semi-final
  
      Before the Mumbai attacks, the two sides held formal peace talks known as a &quot;composite dialogue&quot; for several years but made little headway, apart from a number of confidence-building measures. 
        The  main disputes between the two sides centre on counter-terrorism and the Himalayan territory of Kashmir - which both countries claim. 
        But there are also a number of economic issues and smaller territorial disagreements which divide the sides.  
        But relations have been slowly improving, although talks ended in acrimony last July with the two sides in a public spat over the disputed territory of Kashmir.
             
	
	